What to expect?
This workshop environment has been provisioned for the hackathon participants to build innovative solutions using GenAI technologies and other cloud services on AWS.

The workshop environment have specific resource constraints such as available instance types of Amazon EC2 and Amazon Sagemaker AI. Part of the hackathon challenge is demonstrating your ability to transform ideas into functional prototypes despite resource limitations and time constraints.

Tips for Success in This Hackathon:

Start Small: Begin with a minimum viable prototype and then expand it.
Leverage existing models: Leverage Amazon Bedrock's pre-trained foundation models rather than attempting time-consuming model training from scratch.
Embrace Serverless Architecture: Minimize infrastructure management overhead by utilizing serverless components wherever possible, allowing you to concentrate on your solution's unique value.
Document your architecture: For presentation and judging purposes
Most importantly, have fun!


Environment Setup
It is almost time to build! Each team will be granted access to one AWS account.

Prerequisites
Access to the 12 digit event access code distributed by the Hackathon operator. One code will be provided per team.

Sign in via the event link provided below.

Open Workshop Studio

Select Get Started
Enter your email address and select the Send passcode button.
In your email inbox, check the subject Your one-time passcode email and copy the passcode. Paste the copied passcode as shown below, then press the Sign in button.
Enter the 12-character Event Access Code received from the event organizer and select Next.
Read Terms and Condition and accept by selecting I agree with the Terms and Conditions. Select Join event.
Access AWS through AWS Console or CLI using the menu on the left.
Once logging on, double check that you are logging on to the correct AWS Account. The Account number is shown at the top right corner of the screen. Confirm with your teammates that everyone is in the same account.
verify that you are in the N.Virginia(us-east-1) or Oregon(us-west-2) region for the duration of this Hackathon. If you see access denied errors - verify that the N.Virginia(us-east-1) or Oregon(us-west-2) region is still selected.
Using your AWS Account Responsibly
DO NOT create S3 bucket without restriction. Restrict public access either via S3 Block Public Access  or an S3 Bucket Policy  .
AGREED THAT When you use the AWS account during the hackathon, you will not use/import/input/introduce any data or dataset into the AWS account that contains: 1/ personal data; 2/ regulated data; 3/ financial information; 4/ information about race or ethnic origin; 5/ information about political opinions; 6/ information about religious or philosophical views; 7/ information about trade union memberships; 8/ genetic data; 9/ biometric data information/biometric identifiers; 10/ information about sexual orientation or sex life; 11/ health data; 12/ payment processing data; or 13/ malicious code/malware.
DO NOT create EC2 with Security Group wide open to public .
DO NOT create RDS instances or EMR clusters with Public Access enabled.
LIMIT instances launched in the account to those necessary for your work (as it can induce unnecessary cost).
LIMIT requests to generative AI services, such as Amazon Bedrock  , to below 1 Request per Second (RPS/TPS).
LIMIT your Amazon Bedrock model access requests to only those models essential for your specific project needs. Avoid enabling large numbers of available models without a clear purpose.
DO NOT duplicate inclusion of metrics in metric definitions during CreateTrainingJob in Amazon Sagemaker AI.







AWS Services
The following AWS services could be used to accomplish your goals during the hackathon. However, you're not limited to these services only. Please feel free to leverage any services availabe in the workshop environment that best support your innovative solution.

Amazon Bedrock
Amazon Bedrock  is a fully managed service that offers a choice of high-performing foundation models (FMs) from leading AI companies like AI21 Labs, Anthropic, Cohere, Meta, Stability AI, and Amazon via a single API, along with a broad set of capabilities you need to build generative AI applications with security, privacy, and responsible AI. Using Amazon Bedrock, you can easily experiment with and evaluate top FMs for your use case, privately customize them with your data using techniques such as fine-tuning and Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), and build agents that execute tasks using your enterprise systems and data sources. Since Amazon Bedrock is serverless, you don't have to manage any infrastructure, and you can securely integrate and deploy generative AI capabilities into your applications using the AWS services you are already familiar with.

Documentation Console

Amazon SageMaker AI
Amazon SageMaker AI  is a fully managed service that brings together a broad set of tools to enable high-performance, low-cost machine learning (ML) for any use case. With SageMaker AI, you can build, train and deploy ML models at scale using tools like notebooks, debuggers, profilers, pipelines, MLOps, and more—all in one integrated development environment (IDE). SageMaker AI supports governance requirements with simplified access control and transparency over your ML projects. In addition, you can build your own foundation models (FMs), large models that were trained on massive datasets, with purpose-built tools to fine-tune, experiment, retrain, and deploy FMs. SageMaker AI also offers access to hundreds of pretrained models, including publicly available FMs, that you can deploy in a few quick steps.

Documentation Console

Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)
Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)  is an object storage service offering industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. Millions of customers of all sizes and industries store, manage, analyze, and protect any amount of data for virtually any use case, such as data lakes, cloud-native applications, and mobile apps. With cost-effective storage classes and easy-to-use management features, you can optimize costs, organize and analyze data, and configure fine-tuned access controls to meet specific business and compliance requirements.

Documentation Console

AWS IAM
With AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)  , you can specify who or what can access services and resources in AWS, centrally manage fine-grained permissions, and analyze access to refine permissions across AWS.

Documentation Console




AWS CLI and SDK Access
AWS CLI
The AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI)  is a unified tool to manage your AWS services. With just one tool to download and configure, you can control multiple AWS services from the command line and automate them through scripts.

The fastest way to get started with the AWS CLI is to use AWS CloudShell  , a browser-based shell. This service runs in the AWS console and inherits your user identity, so there's no need to set long-lived security credentials. CloudShell runs on Amazon Linux 2023 and you can install additional packages if needed. You are limited to 1GB of storage.

To access AWS CloudShell from the console, use the console link .

The AWS CLI Command Reference  provides CLI commands for all services, including:

Amazon Bedrock 
Amazon Bedrock Runtime 
Amazon SageMaker AI 
Amazon S3 
Amazon S3 API 
AWS IAM 
AWS SDK
The AWS Software Development Kit (AWS SDK)  is a set of platform-specific building tools for developers. AWS SDK is available in 12+ languages, so you can choose the right one based on your team's preferences.

